# Correctability of errors 
##### Prerequisites:
[[STC-EC-Syndrome]]

### Introduction
Suppose we have a stabilizer $S = <g_1,...g_{n-k}>$
and an encoded state $|\phi\rangle=\text{ENC}(|\psi\rangle)$ that has been corrupted by some error.
We wish to ask, what kinds of errors can be corrected? 
We talk about the definitions of [[#Error definition|errors,]] [[#Logical error definition|logical errors]] as well as some [[#Properties of Logical Errors|properties]], and show what does it mean to say [[#Correctable errors theorem|a set of errors is correctable]]. We show that [[#Logical errors are not correctable lemma|logical errors are not correctable]]. Lastly [[#So what kinds of errors are correctable|through example]] we emphasize that you can't really say an error is correctable, but instead only say a set of errors is correctable.

### Error definition
**Def(Error)** $E \ne I$. We usually only consider errors that are $\notin S$. This is because if $E$ is in the stabilizer, then it isn't really an error, because it leaves the code-space unaffected.

### Logical error definition
**Def(Logical error):** $F \in \mathcal{N}(S)-S$. We call this type of error $F$ a logical error, because these types of errors are in fact some of the logical operations on the encoded state. So for instance it could be that $\text{DEC}(F(\text{ENC})) = X$, so $F$ acting on the output space is the same thing as the NOT operator on the logical space. These errors cannot be corrected under any choice of syndrome.

### Properties of Logical Errors
Properties for logical error $E$
	- $E$ fixes $V_S$ setwise.
		$|\psi\rangle \in V_S$
		$\implies \forall_{g_i}E|\psi\rangle=Eg_i|\psi\rangle=g_iE|\psi\rangle$
		$\implies E|\psi\rangle\text{ is a +1 eigenvec of all } g_i$
		$\implies E|\psi \rangle \in V_S$ by definition of $V_S$ 
	- $E$ doesn't fix $V_S$ pointwise. 
		Otherwise $E$ would not be a logical error, $E$ would be $\in S$
	- $\text{Syndrome}(E)=(1,1,...1)$       
		([[STC-EC-Syndrome#Logical Error Syndrome Lemma|Logical Error Syndrome Lemma]])
	- Logical errors are not correctable
		([[#Logical errors are not correctable lemma]])


### Correctable errors theorem
**Thm(Correctable Errors):** Given a set $\mathcal{E}=\{E_i\}_i$ of errors, the stabilizer code generated by $S$ can correct $\mathcal{E}$ if for any i,j: $E_i^\dagger E_j\notin \mathcal{N}(S)-S$ , i.e two errors never have the same syndrome if $\notin S$, can still be corrected if in $S$.
	Proof: Given $\mathcal{E}$, build a syndrome decoder for each error $E_i \in \mathcal{E}$, such that each error is corrected by applying $E_i ^\dagger$. Note that this will fail only if two errors $E_i\ne E_j$ have the same syndrome, ([[STC-EC-Syndrome#Same syndrome Theorem|Same Syndrome Theorem]]: same thing as saying $E_i^\dagger E_j \in \mathcal{N}(S)$) which cannot happen, because $E_i^\dagger E_j\notin \mathcal{N}(S)-S$, unless $E_i^\dagger E_j\in S$. In this case even though they are two errors with the same syndrome, both $E_i$ and $E_j$ can be corrected by $E_i^\dagger$, as $E_i^\dagger E_i = I$ and $E_i^\dagger E_i\in S$, which leaves $V_S$ unaffected, and thus any state $|\psi\rangle$ would remain unchanged.


### Logical errors are not correctable lemma
**Lem(Logical errors are not correctable):** Suppose $\mathcal{E}$ contains a logical error $L$. Then $\mathcal{E}$ is not correctable using syndrome decoding.
	Proof: [[STC-EC-Syndrome#Logical Error Syndrome Lemma|Logical errors have syndrome ]]$(1,1,...1)$. Thus they cannot be corrected using stabilizer codes, as this syndrome corresponds to the no error state.


### So what kinds of errors are correctable?
Note that this means that you can't really classify an error as always being correctable. You need to talk about the set of errors together, as the only way that a set of errors is not correctable is if you cannot build a syndrome decoder for it, which means that two of the errors you picked to correct have the same syndrome, (i.e some i,j such that $E_i E_j \in \mathcal{N}(S)$).

To see this, look at the following example:

Now consider 2 errors, $E \in \mathcal{N}(S)-S  \text{ (logical)}, F\in \mathcal{G}^n - \mathcal{N}(S)\text{ (not logical, but also not in }S)$, and let $Q = FE$. Note that individually, $\{E\}$ is not correctable, because it is a logical error. Also, $\{F\}$ is correctable by the correctable errors theorem. However note that $\text{Syndrome}(FE)=\text{Syndrome}(F)$ 
(Use the same syndrome theorem: $F^\dagger FE=E \in \mathcal{N}(S)\implies \text{Syndrome}(FE)=\text{Syndrome}(F)$),
$FE \notin \mathcal{N}(S)$ or in $S$, so $FE$ can be corrected. So $\{F\},\{FE\}$ are both correctable, however $\{F,FE\}$ is not correctable, because $\text{Syndrome}(F)=\text{Syndrome}(FE)$, and so the code cannot tell these two apart. Thus we need to talk about a set of errors being correctable, rather than just the errors individually. 

